# Secure EDL Review SIGGRAPH workflow planning

## Attendees

* Tom Cowland (Foundry)
* Matt Daw (MovieLabs)
* Roger Nelson (Autodesk)
* Peri Friend (Foundry)
* Elliot Morris (Foundry)
* David Feltell (Foundry)
* Chris Vienneau (MovieLabs/FX-DMZ)
* Blazej Floch (Autodesk)

## Agenda

* Outline of workflow
  * Assetized OTIO that resolves via OpenAssetIO
      * Playback of secure media in OpenRV, using OpenAssetIO to resolve available proxies/alternate formats from MovieLabs PoC infra.
      * Export multi-ref from JIT expanded single-ref OTIO (though if not loaded there may be missing metadata).
  * This has been PoC’d using the OTIO Medialinker mechanism
* Format/Forum for demo [CV]
  * Curated journey through a workflow
    * ML have content
    * Content is available publicly so no issues with access
    * Several sessions one for each key component of the demo stages
  * No point-of-presence yet needs TBC
    * Wait till commitment scope is happy
    * Deadlines for org TBC
* High-level architecture
  * Taking a single-ref OTIO -> media-multi-ref OTIO via OpenAssetIO is option (a), which has less work in openRV(?)
  * Using higher-level OpenRV hooks to do this ‘on the fly’ using the OpenRV specific hooks is option (b), which shows the run–time nature.
  * (a) (b) probably 90% the same code.
  * Option ©  is then using this for other OpenRV open calls -save for later, option (b) is prob best.
    * Easier to show this is JIT.
* Jobs to be done
  * Determine how much we feature the SSO token flow  [MD]
    * OpenAssetIO has plumbing to get it to OpenRV, can we get this to the actual loader?
      * Can add for demo purposes
      * But what are the long-term flows
        * Keep this as a stretch-goal
  * OpenAssetIO integration into OpenRV [RN]
    * Python
  * MovieLabs OpenAssetIO resolver [MD]
    * getRelatedReferences support
  * What can we do in Nuke Studio?
    * Secure is the key here? [TC]
      * Can show insecure if needed, showing multiple apps, incl commercial using same assetized OTIO is the win (Premier is exporting original EDL, with the entity reference in meta that is post-processed).
    * Discussions around changes in edit (out of SIGGRAPH) [CV]
      * Pick up conversation
