# OpenAssetIO TSC April 16th 2023

## Agenda

- Survey responses
	- Will share results next week once collated
	- Largely validate existing world-view that has been steering descisions to date

- Siggraph planning updates:
	- OpenRV secure EDL review.
		- Make it work "PoC" that does an O-auth flow in a web pane, downloads OTIO file using token.
		- Discussion [MD/TC] How much of auth flow belongs in OpenAssetIO vs more self-contained topic?
		- Minimal use case is artist environment supporting corporate auth SSO.
		- ALso need to suppor headless/render farm auth:
			- Is this using a service account or transporting the users credentials.
			- Different flows for the above.
		- Work in progress on support tokens through to ffmpeg in OpenRV.
		- Need to work out how to insert OpenAssetIO into file loading code in OpenRV rather than the OTIO hooks so we can use it for general I/O.
		- Passing SSO throught to `resovlve` via locale for manager back-end auth still feels to fit.
		- Resolving an SSO trait that returns differfent tokens for storage access feels to fit too.
		- Next step updating MovieLabs services based on PoC.
		- New BatchElementError codes for auth failures.
	- MovieLabs ontology conversion.
		- MovieLabs onotology structure feels like to ultimately is a natrual fit for "specifications" and "traits" through composition via hiararchy, once RDF vs JSON was investigated.
		- Work to be done to work map out which types/properties fit in the ontology vs are layered on in OpenAssetIO.
		- Need to determine how functional/structural types relate to the composed traits etc.
		- [BF] Whats the process for working on the ontology, is this going to be a version/release gated thing, vs public consultation?
			- [MD] Can't speak for govenance, but definitly not a "done in one". 
		- Maybe work in // to develop concrete workflows to aid conversion.	
	- Ayon/Katana demo.
		- Hopes to show the "no dev effort needed" workflow where Katana OpenAssetIO support allows the Ayon resolver to be used.	
  
- Host-facing conveniences progress update:
	- Key methods (resolve, preflight, register) largely complete.
		- Added singular/batch versions of methods that return values or throw, or variants
		- Massively reduced the boilerplate in our existing PoCs/implementations
		- No extra work for managers
	- Hiding pybind dependency.
		- Means Hosts can expose API objects from C++ to python without needing to know about pybind/etc..	

- Next up:
 	- Port remaining Python-only methods.
		- [getRelatedReferences refactor](https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/issues/847) a prority as needed for SIGGRAPH demo.
	- Affect critical [API change issues](https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22api+change%22).
