# OpenAssetIO TSC Mar 2nd 2023

## Agenda

- Siggraph planning

  - Showing Ontology - trait conversion and the use of MovieLabs
    ontology in core OpenAssetIO Specifications.
      - Starting specifications for initial host integrations
      - Raymond/Daniel to help map trait-speriments to ML ontology

  - MovieLabs/OTIO/OpenRV workflow Secure delivery of a cut through an
    assetized OTIO, using related refs to find proxies.
      - Media Linker Doesn't support multi-ref yet.
      - Do we need multi-ref in OTIO? Or just use it for non proxy
        topics?
    - Do we need just use OpenAssetIO to query relations in
      memory, vs popoulating an OTIO with multi refs.
        - Might be nice if we can as it shows OpenAssetIO as a
          more general tool for related ref queries, and keep
          just as single ref in OTIO, also sidesteps the media
          linker multi-ref code. Supports non OTIO open too.
    - JiT resolution everywhere
    - OpenFileIO Not needed in OpenRV as we can at least already use
      entities that resolve to http.
        - Zero trust
          - Could squirrel an SSO token into the locale?
          - Hard part might be squirreleing that through to the call
            site.
          - Does this require any new API surface area?
            - Try to avoid that for SIG
      - Decouple metadata service from the storage service
        - Increases auth problems as you need multiple security
          tokens
        - Increases complexity of the host unless we can mandate it
          is a URL
          - Hopefully we can do this
        - For SIGGRAPH hopefully assume single token (prob using
          okta)
        - Libraries make it hard as they make the actual request
          which can force signed url workflows.
            - Short window of resolve to open may help
            - Link sharing is the main reason to avoid signed urls
  
- Host-facing conveniences
  - Integration work started for Katana and Nuke
  - Focusing work on missing host API (eg c++ traitgen)
