# OpenAssetIO TSC March 7th 2024

## Agenda

- Trait versioning story update
  - https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/pull/1267
- Experiences integrating OpenAssetIO from a host perspective (Francis Mathews)
- Concern over growing complexity of introspection methods
  - https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/issues/1278
- Scheduling so all TSC members have a chance to attend
- Any other business

## Overflow topics (if there's time)
- How mandatory is `kManagerDriven`
  - https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/issues/1223


## Conversation Notes

### Trait versioning story update
General agreement that new, in-data iterative approach sounded sensible.
### Experiences integrating OpenAssetIO from a host perspective
Generally positive.
Specific concerns:

Docs are hard to discover.

  - We've heard this specific criticism before, that the docs are there
    but difficult to uncover/understand. We need to move forward with a
    plan on this.

C++17 can be a problem for legacy tools
  - No real plan to address/change this.

### Concern over growing complexity of introspection methods
- High level meandering discussion about the growing complexity of introspection
methods.
- Some discussion about stripping back ManagementPolicy to its "original
intent".
- Some thoughts that it would be better to deliver too little
  introspective capability rather than too much.
- Concern over the level of speculative development going on in this area.
- Some admiration for a "dry run" sort of approach, rather than up-front
  introspection. Although concern expressed that changing to this would
  again be speculative.
- Tow Cowland following up on this, see https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/pull/1281

### Scheduling so all TSC members have a chance to attend
Agreed to change the date of the TSC to **the first monday** of each
month, in a speculative effort to let more people attend.