# OpenAssetIO TSC May 13th 2024

## Agenda

### Compatibility
 - Much attention in the last few months over API & ABI compatibility
 - OpenAssetIO is in a unique space in this regard:
    - Technically separate Manager/Host compatibility
    - Cross-language compatibility concerns
    - As a foundational interop tech, do we need higher standards?
 - Do we need more granular breakage categories?
 - Interest to learn of other projects experiences in similar spaces
 - How can we be clearer/less intimidating to integrators around this?

 Outcome:
  - OpenAssetIO should make a stability guarantee.
  - This guarantee will broadly commit to :
    - Making API breaking changes only in major releases.
    - Making ABI breaking changes only in minor releases (or above)

  - OpenAssetIO should provide richer release notes, detailing if the
    release is a breaking change for managers or hosts or both.

  Python discussion:
  - Python is not namespaced, and managers are vulnerable to issues
    where an incompatible openassetio version is used unexpectedly due to
    whichever host happens to run you.
  - Some notes that the python ecosystem is used to this.
  - Can be worked around in python due to dynamic nature of language.
  - Still a "wait and see" thing, committing to a solution now could be
    a lot of unnecessary complicated work.

### GUI Delegation
 - Some discussion recently about what initial steps into GUI delegation
   might look like
 - Potential categories of initial GUI delegation
   - Entity Control Widget
   - Asset Loading Browser
   - Asset Publishing Browser
 - What's in people heads as to what the first iteration of delegation
   could/should accomplish? What about the final iteration?
 - Minimal possible starting point?

Discussion
- Persistence of UI presentation stressed once again as a real issue.
- Very strong preference for modular approach in GUI delegation
  implementation, if we have to tie something to a specific technology,
  then it should at least be extensible to others
- Lorenzo : Web interfaces are coming, don't discount javascript
- Recommendation we steal katana model exactly, lower risk due to being
  fully developed
    - Selection tracking may need rethinking.
Hearts & Mind. What's the absolute simplest least risk demonstration we
could do
  - Porting the old katana thing still favoured in this regard.