# OpenAssetIO TSC February 1st 2024

## Agenda

- Quick recap of last 2 months effort
  - Beta 2 imminent.
  - Version Accessors
  - Prebuilt Binaries on github page
  - entityTraitsMethod
  - URL/Path converters

  - Moving forwards with trait versioning, C++ plugin system, api conveniences, and kRequired/kManagerDriven.

- Traits and Specifications versioning
  - Goals & Challenges
  - Open Discussion
  - Non-mediacreation external library technical priority

  (Prior thinking : [link](https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO/pull/1254/files?short_path=323ec8c#diff-323ec8ceb50b2a2f02d0fef821b4da66ffdd65ab5faa22681e2260e84987963a))

  ### If we have time
- What's worth a breaking change in mediacreation? (LocatableContentTrait - getUrl vs. getLocation)
- Path to URL full-compliance niggles
  - Are `\\.\` UNC paths of any importance for path->URL conversion?
  - Is converting a long path to a Windows non-normalised `\\?\` device path to work around MAX_PATH limit really important?




## Conversation Notes
- Ayon needs to be able to store a version string of some sort inside their database
- Flexibility is very important
- From Ayons perspective, adapting to messy or difficult versioning methods is par for the course and not an issue, so long as its technically handleale.
- Dont encode a lot of meaning into the version
- Vendoring is probably expected
- Multiple traitgen types could be helpful to avoid having to setup multiple mediacreation packages, but it's not a make or break thing
- Matts idea : Could you publish a host and a manager version of mediacreation to avoid the need to vendor, that would avoid namespace collisions. General sense of "cool interesting idea"
- Confirmation that host is the right person to determine schema version in use
- Further desire to choose simplest solution, given expectation traits won't change very much.
- General consensus on the idea of providing a single method to allow the manager
to query for the schema version.
- Probably need some small method to extract package id out of trait id to support
multi-schema specs. The data is already there, but it should be an opaque type in theory.


## URL/Path Conversation notes:
- DCCs long path handling is bonkers, even separate fields inside the same applications behave differently. Would be helpful if openassetio solves that
- Probably worth effort to convert to device path for long paths.
- "complex" things like sharepath probably not worth it.
- Normalized paths "\\.\" do happen, but not often.

## Decisions
- Move forward under the "single HostInterface method for querying versions" plan
- Plan to extend our URL/Path converter to detect longer paths and convert to the appropriate path type.
