# OpenAssetIO TSC June 10th 2024
Attending : 
- Elliot Morris (Foundry)
- David Feltell (Foundry)
- Sam Crooks (Foundry)
- Matt Daw (Movielabs)
- Ondřej Samohel (Ynput)
- Lorenzo Angeli (Ftrack)

## Agenda

### String Substitution in MCL
  - Establishment of the OpenAssetIO substitution standard for tokens
    inside strings.
  - Ondrej: Ayaon has to deal with optional keys, to handle missing properties,
      they use special syntax, such as `<.{foo}>`, which skips the dot if
      there is no substitution.
      - This sort of substitution formatting is a pretty big deal in ayon,
        they have extended python fstrings for this purpose.
  - Lorenzo: Maybe provide a default value
  - Another substitute use case is referencing UDIMs
    - Should this be relationship, is that too far out? Are tokens here to stay?
  - Enthusiasm for this being standardized, even if it's limited out the gate.

### USD plugin Modernization
  - Rundown of our plans with the USD plugin
    - Adding C++ plugin system support
    - Adding the new OpenAssetIO url decoding rather than the hacky way it does it currently.
    - Going to do a demo with Katana.
  - Came up in conversation about potential alternate bit of value you get from using openassetio with USD: cache with interface from Lorenzo : https://github.com/ftrackhq/ftrack-python/blob/main/source/ftrack_api/cache.py. Related to caching matters, only tangential to USD.

### MCL versioning decisions.
  - Recap of final decision for MCL versioning
  - The versioning change is now non breaking, meaning this is less super high priority than it once was.
  - Should deprecation warnings be emitted for non_versioned traits? Consensus is that they can be disabled if people care, and we should definitely emit them
  - Ondrej: Asset managers are the best place for upgrade/downgrade paths. Continued assurance than managers are used to doing and will be able to do these data migrations
  - Might be good to have a function in the trait API to tell you if something is a trait of any version (version agnostic)
    - Use case pointed out is searching for trait information, to get any version of "Model" data for example.
    - Without this, managers will still likely have to do string processing on the ID, which breaks the abstraction.

### GUI delegation continued discussions, re-prioritization.
  - Lorenzo: STRONG recommendation to ignore styling initially, from personal experience is a time black hole.
  - Regarding whether pushing the official 1.0 release out further due to gui delegation focus, consensus that Beta vs 1.0 dosen't really matter from an adoption perspective, stability is more important.
  - Ondrej: For stuff like unreal and blender (non qt), we pip install pyside to make gui work. MASSIVE MESS.


### Action Items
Create Issues for
- A utility function, probably in generated trait views, for non versioned
  trait ID detection, in order to maintain the opaqueness of trait ID's.
- Extended `substitute` support for default substitutions
- Extended `substitute` support for optional substrings. (Example given from Ondrej : `<.{foo}>`, the dot dosen't appear if `foo` is missing).
