# OpenAssetIO TSC July 14th 2025

Attending: 
- David Feltell (Foundry)
- Rob Fanner (Foundry)
- Ondřej Samohel (Ynput)
- Sam Richards (Walt Disney Imagineering)
- Luke Hoffman

## Agenda

### Last month(s): 

  - OpenAssetIO v1.0.0 released!

  - ASWF Dev Days success - approx 5 (small) contributions.

  - Open sourced basic Flow Production Tracking plugin (finally!).

  - KatanaOpenAssetIO (Katana AssetAPI adapter) publishing support.

  - Prototyping/validating publishing workflow including UI delegation 
    using AYON - Ynput's open source asset manager.
    - OS: How difficult was it to integrate AYON UI?
    - DF: Out-of-the box widgets are not 100% suitable but can be made
      to work, ideally OpenAssetIO-specific widgets would be available,
      but otherwise quite straightforward to integrate.
    - DF: One problem is the cascade of web requests whenever you do
      anything.
    - OS: Yes this can be a problem especially in large projects with
      1000s of versions. It is a problem of caching.
    - DF: Previous canvasing ("$100 exercise") had caching as a high
      priority feature, but not yet implemented. Cache invalidation is a
      hard problem.
    - SR: Previously used an asset manager cache with a timestamp in the
      cache key to control cache invalidation.
    - DF: Another problem is the limited breadth of traits in the 
      MediaCreation library, making it difficult to map to the 
      appropriate AYON "product type".
    - OS: We've started identifying base product types that others map
      to (e.g. "image" as the base of "render", "plate", etc), which
      MediaCreation traits do cover.

### Next up:

  - Prep for ASWF/SIGGRAPH - Virtual Town Hall

  - Focus on traits library - versioning and expansion.
    - OS: Moved custom traits implementation away from Pydantic due to
      non-portable binary dependency, but validation still works and
      is really useful.
    - DF: Nothing stopping us having more features in the Python traits.
      Will check out the code.

### AOB
  
NA
