# OpenAssetIO TSC March 10th 2025

Attending: 
- David Feltell (Foundry)
- Matt Daw (Movielabs)
- Ondřej Samohel (Ynput)
- Robert Fanner (Foundry)
- JT Nelson
- Tom Cowland (Cinesite)

## Agenda

### Last month: 

  - Flow Production Tracking/Shotgun [UI delegation](https://github.com/OpenAssetIO/OpenAssetIO-MediaCreation/pull/100)
    prototype plugin and manager plugin enhancements (video).
    * OS: is the code for this available?
    * DF: will open source the FPT plugin(s) ASAP, but the repo needs
      significant tidying first.
    * OS: given this required changes to Nuke, how can it be tested?
    * DF: Katana might be the best test case in the short term, since
      the integration is all open source.
    * RF: we might be able to negotiate private access to a Nuke build.
    * OS: that's not really useful unless customers can also use it.

### To discuss:

  - Learnings from FPT/Shotgun
    * Communicating intent when resolving entities - e.g. triggering
      appropriate background processes.
      - DF: this came up when browsing for workfiles in FPT, where 
        files may be copied to a user sandbox, global context may be
        changed, etc.
      - TC: consider the `Context.locale` - originally designed to
        allow intent to be specified.
      - RF: does this cause problems with sharing (serialised) contexts
        across different applications?
      - TC: if this is a concern then a child context can be used.
      - TC: another option is to add a tag to the reference.

    * Entities with multiple paths to different kinds of file.
      - DF: my intuition would be different files are different entity
        references.
      - OS: internally we use "intent" traits to disambiguate.
      - DF: but that would be a change of API contract for `resolve`.
      - TC: this is best modelled using relationship queries, or
        possibly determined by the host identifier.

  - UI delegation proposal review woes - should we just merge it?
    * OS: yes, based on past experience in similar situations.

### AOB

  - JN: currently working with [Assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp)
    and wondering if OpenAssetIO has had contact with them, and where it
    might fit.
  - DF: not had any contact with them.
  - TC: possibly orthogonal concerns, since the host of Assimp would
    likely feed pre-resolved paths to it.
  - DF: unless it's a case more akin to OpenTimelineIO or USD, where
    they act as an OpenAssetIO host, whilst also being embedded in
    a host application.
  - JN: will do a deeper dive into OpenAssetIO and follow up.
