# OpenAssetIO TSC April 14th 2025

Attending:

- David Feltell (Foundry)
- Matt Daw (Movielabs)
- Ondřej Samohel (Ynput)

## Agenda

### Last month:

- Experimental UI delegation API merged.
  * OS: Jupyter Notebooks as documentation FTW! - though tricky if you
    need to run a server (Ayon) as part of the notebook.
  * OS: especially interested in UI delegation in Nuke as demoed in
    previous TSC.
  * DF: will be poking Nuke devs now that RC.2 is released, but it
    may be a while. In the meantime Katana is a useful case since it
    already has its "Widget Delegate" API that we can adapt.
    
- OpenAssetIO RC.2 release: UI delegation + QoL improvements.

### Current work:

- Flow Production Tracking plugin open sourcing imminent - just awaiting
  exec review.
- KatanaOpenAssetIO improvements, esp. publishing support.

### Next up:

- Ayon manager plugin improvements with a view to demoing with 
  KatanaOpenAssetIO.
  * OS: definitely interested in Katana with Ayon, it would be a good 
    validation of OpenAssetIO, but publishing is complex - for anything
    non-trivial it really needs UI delegation alongside, in particular 
    for context management.
  * DF: so in a way the fact publishing is complex may be good as an
    exercise in validating the OpenAssetIO publishing API.
  * OS: for existing hosts, UI delegation is more useful than
    publishing, since publishing is a solved problem, but for new hosts
    like Katana, publishing support may be more useful.
  * OS: Ayon may be particularly useful vs. Flow since Flow takes a lot
    of custom configuration, whereas Ayon is quite opinionated and so
    works well out of the box.
