# OpenAssetIO TSC January 12th 2026

Attending: 
- David Feltell (Foundry)
- Steve Shapiro (Foundry)
- Ondrej Samohel (Ynput)
- Matt Daw (Movielabs)
 
## Agenda

- Introducing Steve Shapiro to the TSC, with the aim of taking on
  both TSC Chair and ASWF TAC Representative roles, replacing David 
  Feltell and Rob Fanner, respectively.

- Switching from Intel to ARM wheels for MacOS PyPI packages.
  OS: Definitely still Intel Macs in use in studios.
  DF: Can we switch to ARM wheels with a view to supporting Intel later?
  MD: Apple stopping support of Intel this year.
  SS: By the time we can support Intel, it may already be end-of-life
  allowing us to avoid the effort.

- Imminent release of versioned MediaCreation traits and corresponding
  TraitGen utility.

## AOB

- OS: Ynput has developed a custom USD resolver that uses the same
  reference format as OpenAssetIO, which may drive interest in 
  OpenAssetIO.
  * DF: What about usdOpenAssetIOResolver.
  * OS: Various custom requirements - version pinning, advanced caching,
    C++ for speed. Not currently possible with AYON OpenAssetIO plugin.

- OS: Very good feedback from ComfyUI OpenAssetIO demo, especially that
  the same entity reference works across applications.

- OS: `ayon-openassetio-manager-plugin` PR to add better OpenAssetIO
  support hasn't been forgotten, and has highlighted to areas for AYON
  improvement to avoid the hacking around that the PR currently
  requires.
  
- SS: Will raise OpenAssetIO in meeting with Cinesite re. integration 
  in Gaffer.

- DF: GripTape another candidate for outreach - clearly interested in
  asset management, given their Flow Production Tracking integration.
  * SS: alreadying looking into GripTape for other applications, and
    will speak to them re. OpenAssetIO.